#summary Frequently Asked Questions


|| *I used anySIM or iUnlock on firmware 1.0.2 and then upgraded to 1.1.1 when it came out.  Now my iPhone's phone function does not work.  What should I do?* ||

*You can do any of the following:*

*1)* Follow our guide [http://code.google.com/p/iphone-elite/wiki/DowngradingBaseband here] to downgrade the baseband firmware to 3.14.08 (1.0.2).  This will restore the phone functionality.  You will basically have a 1.0.2 phone again.

*2)* You can purchase an iPhoneSIMFree license and use their software to recover from anySIM/iUnlock corruption and unlock your phone under 1.1.1.

*3)* You can wait for a free and [http://code.google.com/p/iphone-elite/wiki/iPhoneBrick safe] unlock solution, meanwhile just using your device as an iPod Touch.

|| *Is it possible to completely remove any sign that anySIM or iUnlock ever touched my phone?* ||

Not at this time.  We are actively investigating to what extent those applications corrupted the NVRAM and whether it is fixable.  iPhoneSIMFree's latest unlock solution claims to be able to fix the NVRAM corruption and unlock a bricked 1.1.1 phone.  We currently do not know if they are actually rebuilding the NVRAM or merely patching out the integrity checks.

|| *Can I downgrade the 4.0 baseband (1.1.1) to the 3.14.08 (1.0.2) baseband but keep the 1.1.1 OS firmware so I can use my unlocked phone in 1.1.1?* ||

This is currently being investigated.  A few people have tried it but they report general instability problems regarding anything that has to do with the phone functionality.  It is likely that the 1.1.1 version of _lockdownd_ doesn't play well with the older baseband version.  It is currently not recommended, but stay tuned as we investigate further.