#summary Compiled binaries of bricktool and iPatcher
#labels Featured,Phase-Requirements,Phase-Implementation

= Details =

What are the iPhone-elite lockdownd tools?

This is a collection of iphone-compiled tools that allow an individual to easily 
install the iPhone-elite patch and ensure that brick mode is disabled.  The 
following components are included in the current release:
		-bricktool

		-iPatcher

More information regarding individual tools may be found at the iPhone-elite 
wiki.

How to use the iPhone-elite lockdownd tools:

  Prerequisites:
		#	The BSD Subsystem (patricularly tar and gzip)
		# A way to copy files to your phone
		# A way to run commands in a terminal on your phone
	
Steps:
		# Copy ipe-lockdownd-tools.tgz to the root directory ( / ) on your                                                             
iPhone.                   
		* In a terminal, type the following lines:
{{{
				cd /
				cp /usr/libexec/lockdownd /usr/libexec/lockdownd.bak
				tar -xvzf ipe-lockdownd-tools.tgz
				cd /ipetools
				./ipatcher -a
}}}
		*	Reboot your iPhone.
		*	In a terminal, type the following lines:
				cd /ipetools
				./bricktool

If you experience either success or failure, please post a note on the iphone-elite
wiki.  If you can add details such as version of lockdownd patched, iphone firmware
version, and baseband firmware version it would be extremely helpfull.  In the case
of a problem, a description of the problem would be nice as well.

The following people have made this possible:
  -79b1caf2c95695e0af0e6216216eec54
  -BlaCkBirD
  -Zibri
  -b1llyb0y
  -kiwi66
  -rdh